##  6 June 2019

This past week or so, I have learned a great deal while only writing some seemingly basic IOKit / USB code, which was quite successful without any real difficulties.

__USB & IOKit__

Basically, I started by reading through the [USB Device Interface Guide](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/DeviceDrivers/Conceptual/USBBook/USBIntro/USBIntro.html) from Apple, which has some demo code with detailed descriptions of what is happening.  Essentially, there are just a few steps needed to access a USB device once the initial device object (io_object_t) is known.

1) Get a plug-in interface in order to obtain the IOUSBDeviceInterface.

2) Using the Device Interface, read the Configuration Descriptor and set the configuration that is required.  In this case, there is only one configuration available with the RTLSDR, so the code just sets the device to that one configuration.

3) Find the interface needed in order to receive data from the RTLSDR.  This is similar to getting the the Device Interface.  First, an interface iterator is requested, and then for each iteration, a plug-in interface is used to obtain an IOUSBInterfaceInterface.  This Interface Interface is then checked for the number of endpoints, then checking each endpoint if it's the needed interface, the Bulk-In interface. 

Most all of the code used for the above steps I converted to Swift from the demo code in Apple's USB guide.  I only had two real issue to deal with.  

The first issue, and this is just a general issue, but while first attempting to access the RTLSDR using the Device Interface, I kept receiving an "Not enough resources" error as returned from IOKit.  After a bit of head scratching and googling, I found the fix to be quite simple.  By default, a new App project is sandboxed, and the sandbox was preventing me from accessing the lower level IOKit USB functions.  Turning off App Sandbox cured that issue.

The other issue I have found is that not all parts of the IOKit.usb have been "Swift-ified".  There are several #defines that are needed and are not imported into Swift.  Therefore, I created the IOKit+USB.swift file which creates the missing #defines as simple constants.

Most of this IOKit / USB code will eventually be re-written to be less "generic" and more specific towards the RTLSDR device itself.

__librtlsdr__

Having spent some time following the code path in librtlsdr, I have come to realize that most of the code exists to set various parameters and settings within the Realtek USB chip and the attached tuner.  The code for receiving data from the RTLSDR is just a matter of submitting bulk requests and letting the callback keep re-submitting the the request until it's canceled by the user. Seemingly straight forward to follow and understand.

Realizing that I will need some way to know what kind of data is passing through the USB bus so that I can compare my code results with librtlsdr, I installed [Wireshark](https://www.wireshark.org) and found that it's quite easy to setup capturing the USB bus.  It's also quite reassuring that while I am learning about USB communications, I am able to see exactly what data is being exchanged across the bus and Wireshark does a great job of presenting the data.  I have traced the calls using librtlsdr from opening, to async reading, to stopping async reading, to closing the device and have been able to match each call with the corresponding packets in Wireshark, re-enforcing my recently acquired USB knowledge.

__Next Steps__

Now that I have the generic code working to access the USB device and finding the required interface, I will start writing the utility code that reads and writes data to the Realtek USB chip and the attached tuner using regular USB control requests.  librtlsdr contains numerous (private) utility functions that configure the internal chips on the device such that it can be used as and SDR receiver and to set various operating parameters.  Once I have the bare minimum of utility functions working, I will work on the most important part, receiving IQ samples from the device.

__Demo Project__

Lastly, I have added a demo project that really doesn't do much of anything right now, but it does give me a simple platform for testing my RTLSDR framework.  Eventually, this will turn into something usable, but as for now, it's only being used to test out my nascent code.

