##  11 June 2019

Progress!  I have started porting the "utility" functions that setup the configuration needed and then sends the config settings to the Realtek USB chip via a standard USB DeviceRequest.  This includes several functions that send the USB Request to the device, as well as others which setup the config data that is then sent down the USB pipe using the write functions.

This process has moved along quite quickly. With each step of the way, I am tracing the USB data (using Wireshark) and matching against a trace captured using librtlsdr to make sure all the correct bytes are being sent to the Realtek (and beyond.)

I am now at the point where I am porting the code for the tuner attached to the Realtek USB chip.  This is where things have slowed, just a bit.

The librtlsdr code for the tuners is somewhat of a small mess.  There are abstracted C files for each tuner type, but they don't contain all of the code for each tuner.  librtlsdr.c also contains code for each tuner type, and there exists some circular references within the dev and tuner structs.  To top if off, there are a few functions exposed from librtlsdr that are used within the tuner files.  One more thing, there is at least one function in librtlsdr that is specific to the 820T tuner, but nothing in the R820T C file.

Once I trace all the calls that go back and forth between librtlsdr and the tuner code, I will properly abstract the tuner code and provide whatever delegate functions are needed from the main code to each tuner class.

Now that brings up my next point, I only have dongles that contain the Rafael Micro R820T tuner, and therefore, that will be the only tuner code that I am going to port as that is all that I am able to test.  I will do my best to abstract everything such that if I ever get a dongle with a different tuner, I can port over that code easily enough.

Once I am finished with the tuner code, I will finish the rest of the "utility" functions before I start with the main aspect, the bulk data transfers of IQ data.   At that point I should be able to start the migration into waveSDR.


